I just felt like Twitter was such, such
a drama. Twitter was like the drama
queen of hyper growth companies.
>> You know, it was like when I took over
as CEO, that year the Twitter bird had
hanged itself and exploded on two
different magazine covers. So, I went up
to our head of communications, Gabriel
Stricker, and I was like, "Gabriel,
great news. Next year's goal, no dead
birds on magazine covers." You know, low
bar.
>> Yeah.
>> [music]
>> Hey everybody, we have Dick Costolo on
the show. He's a rare bird in Silicon
Valley these days.
Uh he was CEO of Twitter, but he was the
third CEO. The first one was Jack
Dorsey, who you probably met on the pod
a couple of weeks ago. Uh the second was
Ev Williams, the other founder. And Dick
took over as COO, and then ultimately as
CEO of Twitter, and he ran it for five
years. It was a really extremely
fast-growing organization. They created
a category, uh didn't have a revenue
machine, and was famously dysfunctional.
I think Dick did a really nice job, and
he was sort of the adult in the room.
And he kind of ran the scale-up CEO
masterclass. He talks all about it in
this podcast. He talks about increasing
the velocity of decisions and execution,
which is tricky as you scale. He talked
about how he managed by walking around.
This is something I did, I think it's a
really good idea.
He talked about how do you give very
tough feedback to very tough people.
There's some gems in there.
Dealing with the press, particularly
press that doesn't like you.
Um he talks about focus.
And how much focus you really need need
in the era of AI, when you can build
stuff so quickly.
He talks about how do you manage the
forest instead of fighting all the
fires. He's got a lot of wisdom in here.
He also talks about his regrets,
including a whopper, his regret in not
acquiring Instagram. That one hurt. If
you're scaling your 100 employees,
you're ripping, growing fast, you've got
a lot of growing pains, maybe you feel a
little lot of control,
this episode's for you.
Welcome to the show.
>> Thanks for having me. Appreciate it.
>> I want to wind the clock back to
Twitter, of course.
>> Of course.
>> I watched the documentary recently.
And
>> Was it the one I was in?
>> Yes. I thought you were really good in
it.
>> Oh, thank you.
>> Great. You're great.
>> You were great in the documentary of
yourself.
>> came off as rational and and
knowing what the hell you were doing.
But you're in a long line of interesting
CEOs of Jack Dorsey and then Ev Williams
and yourself and Jack Dorsey and Parag
and Elon Musk.
>> and don't forget um, you know,
that Elon's hired hired hand, Linda
Yaccarino.
>> Okay. Of course. Of course. Um, you
joined as COO. What was the pitch?
>> What was the pitch to me?
>> Yeah, Ev pitched you.
>> yeah, Ev pitched me. The pitch was The
initial pitch was I'm taking um,
paternity leave for a couple weeks. I,
Ev Williams, am taking paternity leave.
Need someone to come in and like just
hold down the fort for a couple weeks
while I'm, you know, out.
>> Interim?
>> Yeah, interim. Would you Would you do
that? And but then while we were having
that discussion,
um, he's like, "Well, what if it was
permanent? You know, what if you were
COO?" And I was going to go start
another company. So,
rewinding the clock a little bit
further, I'd sold my previous company
Feedburner to Google. It's where I
rebumped into the um, Twitter guys cuz
they were all there from Blogger and
getting ready to leave and start Odeo,
which became Twitter. Anyway,
uh, I'm leaving now. I'm leaving Google
a couple years later. Ev texts me that.
I was like, "Ah, I'm going to go start a
I'm going to go start another company
again."
Um, with one of my Feedburner one or
more of my Feedburner co-founders. And
then Ev "What if it was What if it was
permanent? What if you were COO?"
And Twitter was already So, it's it's
two It's summer 2009. It was already
like had hit the you know, Ashton
Kutcher and Oprah Winfrey are, you know,
fighting for the Who's going to get a
million followers?
>> I can see why you wanted to do it.
>> But zero zero revenue model. Zero
business model. All the articles were,
"Sure, Twitter's interesting, but it'll
never They don't have a business model.
They'll never make money." Yeah.
And I just kind of had the Man, you
don't get an opportunity to go into
these to get on these rocket ships. And
when you get a get the opportunity, you
should do it. So, I did it.
>> So, it was famously dysfunctional and
chaotic. I assume you knew that going
in. Was it much more so than you
thought? Or was it about what the press
was saying?
>> It's always both, you know. Um it was It
was The things that were different were
um
It was very much um a collective, by
which I mean like decisions were kind of
made as a group.
>> Yeah.
>> It wasn't Okay, well, you're responsible
for engineering. I don't know. Make it
figure it out and, you know, figure out
what the right answer is. Or
>> Should we, you know, have Should we make
retweet a native thing or should it be,
you know, just you write You had to
write RT at the time and then rewrite
the tweet?
>> I remember that.
>> And And there was a discussion about,
"Well, should we just have retweet be a
thing you can do in Twitter?"
And it would be kind of sit around the
table and talk about it and decide.
>> The group would decide.
>> Okay.
>> You know, so there So, things
moved methodically, is a diplomatic way
of putting it.
>> I see.
>> And decisions were reached over a period
of time. It was chaotic, and then it was
also just um It was just We just didn't
It just didn't move very quickly. It was
didn't move quickly at all.
>> In the In the documentary, it went
through the
you know, pushing out and giving you the
CEO job. It sounded awful, the whole
process.
>> It was awful.
>> What's your side of it? What What was
going on? What's your
>> really have a side of it other than it
was an awful like it's it's, you know,
these things in hindsight are all It
happened very very quickly. It happened
super slowly and painfully and and
um
you know, I was informed like in the
driving rain on the road home by, you
know, Evan and Jason that the board has
decided that you should be the CEO, but
I hadn't been told. And then Bill
Campbell called me and like
you should just quit, you know, and then
and then I was like, "Well, why am I
quitting?" You know, and like anyway, it
went and then this went and then like
the board decided actually no, Ev was
going to remain CEO,
um but you've been great and we're going
to vest a bunch of your options and so
long.
>> Okay.
>> And then I mean, no kidding, over many
many days and weeks. And finally,
[clears throat] I was like, "Listen,
just write up the separation agreement
and you know,
>> I'm good.
>> I'm good. Like
whatever. I'll go find some I'll go do
something else. And then, you know, to
make a long story short, the board got
back together and was like, "Oh, no, no,
no, no." Remember Bijan Sabet from Spark
texted me, "Don't quit."
>> Okay.
>> Like I was like, "I'm not quitting."
Like
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> Like you guys told me you wanted me to
leave cuz Ev was going to stay. Anyway,
it was super crazy.
>> Yes.
>> Um and there was obviously a ton of
stuff going on. And anyway, um long
story short, they're finally like,
"Look, you got to do it." Anyway, and
you know, a give really long story
short, I was like, "All right, I'll I'll
stay and do it."
>> Okay, you take over.
Um
you're the adult. What did you do
initially? Yeah. Like it's very tricky
that the situation. Yeah. And I think
the current the existing founders are
hanging around probably
it looking over your shoulder if not
breathing down your neck.
>> Well, Jack was the chairman of the
board, still. Ev had made Jack chairman
of the board when he made himself CEO.
Um Ev's still on the board. So, two of
the founders, Ev and Jack, are still on
the board.
>> And Biz was in the company.
>> And Biz is in the company, and Jason
Goldman's in the company running
product, and you know, and a bunch of
other people. Um
the the
the first thing that I felt, and I've
I've sort of foreshadowed this, the
first thing that I
just felt we had to do was like velocity
velocity velocity. And and that remained
a concern of mine throughout my time
there. Like, faster faster faster
cadence cadence cadence. Like, how can
we go faster? Why do things take so
long? If this takes 6 weeks, what could
have What would have to be true for it
to be 2 weeks?
>> Yeah.
>> We just
did stuff like that constantly cuz I was
always like, man, this is like dental
surgery. But it was starting from a
position of
we're not going to make we're not going
to sit around the table and vote on
things anymore. I remember vividly um
the statu- like the status line changed
from like, what are you what's going on
or what's happening to something else?
Or maybe it changed to what's happening.
I don't even remember. I wasn't even
involved in it.
And one of the front end engineers,
Britt Selvitelle, came into my office
and was like, "Hey man, what's going
on?" I was like, "What are you talking
about?" He's like, "The status bar
changed to what's happening."
>> Mhm.
>> I was like, "Okay."
>> He's like, "I didn't know anyone asked
me, you know, what I thought about
that." And I was like, "Oh man, yeah,
we're not doing that anymore."
>> [laughter]
>> Mhm.
>> Like, it's going to start being there's
going to start being a lot more of that.
So, that was thing number one.
>> Okay.
>> Thing number two was there were a set of
operating principles um that were
written on a whiteboard that Biz had
been involved in with either either on
his own or with other people. But they
were like
you know, like sometimes you'll get on a
United Airlines flight or whatever and
they'll say, "Here at United Airlines,
we believe in integrity and honesty."
I'm like, "Okay, who cares?" Like, that
doesn't help me. That tells me nothing
about you.
>> company sounds exactly the same.
>> whatever. And also, it doesn't help me
make any decisions, and these things are
meaningless, and they're usually
weaponized against management by like,
you know, well, it says right here.
Anyway, so I was like, okay, we got to
get rid of these things. They're like
they're like not useful. They're costing
the company money.
>> Uh, no, they didn't really. And so, got
rid of those. I like there was there
were just
Um, I remember there were just like
everything was just kind of like messy,
you know? I remember um, there was this
kitchen, and there was like it was just
kind of a mess. There were like dirty
dishes in the sink and everything. And I
think I sent out an email. I was like,
this is why the this is why the [__]
site crashes. Like
you may you don't you may not get it,
but like this this is why the site
crashes, cuz everything's just kind of
[__] like, oh well, someone else will
clean it up. And I was like, this is
ridiculous.
And it was just try I just tried to get
this sort of like, we're not going to do
this like
oh well, we'll get them next year stuff
anymore. There was a poster
on one of the floors that was like,
we'll make better mistakes next time or
something like that, you know? And I was
like, get get that poster out of here.
It's not I don't really care about it,
but it's just sort of indicative of, oh
well, you know? And then the site would
crash again, and people would go like,
oh well, we'll we'll figure it out, you
know? We'll hopefully it won't happen
again next you know, next year,
whatever. So, it was a lot of cleaning
that up, and a lot of velocity velocity
velocity.
>> All any CEO wants to talk about now is
speed. In particularly like companies
seem to slow down as they are in hyper
growth.
>> Yeah, because you
>> It's like you get bigger and get more
less done.
>> Yeah. You because barnacles build up on
your you get like organizational
barnacles.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, so a couple things. Initially,
when we were smaller, this is sub sub
200 people,
what I did to speed things up was, one,
we're not going to make decisions as a
group, we're going to push decisions
down the stack. By the way, I don't have
to be like don't come to me and ask me
what you should do about this unless you
have no idea and want my opinion. Like
figure it out. You know, and and and
don't tell your team what to do. Tell
them to figure it out and push as many
decisions down the stack as you can. And
I don't want to hear, you know,
I remember I would talk to Jack Dorsey
at these dinners we would have from week
to week when he was chairman and was CEO
of Block down the street from us. We
would get together on Tuesday nights and
have dinner.
And I remember telling him, "God, I hate
hearing Dick said in the company as a
reason for things." Cuz what would
happen was Let I'll give you an example.
I remember this example
really well. The Android app
started taking longer and longer and
longer to boot. And so we had a we would
have a metrics meeting. I was like, "Hey
man, the you can see the usage numbers
going down almost linearly with the
Android boot time going up. People are
firing up Twitter and it's taking too
long and they're going to move on to
something else." Like over here on iOS,
that doesn't happen. It's got to be the
same boot. It's got to take just as long
to boot Android as it does iOS. Okay.
So,
two, three nights later, week later, I'm
walking around like one of the
engineering floors after hours
and this Android engineer comes up to me
and goes, "Hey, can I ask you a
question?" Like, "Yeah." He goes, "Hey,
did you say um remove the JSON file from
the Android boot system?" I was like,
"I didn't. I know what a JSON file is,
but I couldn't tell you what's in the
Android boot JSON." And he's like,
"Okay, because I was told Dick said
remove that." And I And I was like,
"Aha, I think I know what's going on
here." Right? And you This would happen
throughout the company. Some manager,
director decides, "Here's a way to solve
this problem." And the engineer pushes
back against them and they just go, "You
know what? Dick said do it."
>> Yep. And it became like this reason for
doing things. So, part of the speed was
now we're not going to have someone so
said. It's push the decisions down the
stack. And by the way, if your team
makes a decision and you can't defend it
to your manager, like that's
don't go well so and so said. Like have
the engineer talk to director, whatever.
The second thing I did as we got bigger
and bigger
is I started realizing
oh, the organization is slowing down
because there are all these fiefdoms in
the organization that want that want
like ball control over their stuff.
>> Mhm.
>> So,
>> Very common.
>> Very common. So, so here's here was here
was how it surfaced. Um we ran an
experiment and I was like, oh, this is
actually really super interesting. What
are the hypotheticals about what this
experiment would do in production? The
engineer runs through it in an
experimentation meeting. Like great,
let's go ahead and launch this to, you
know, X percent of users and see what
happens.
>> Yeah.
>> One week, two week, three weeks go by
and like, hey, where's the I'm like
looking at the app. I'm like, where's
the you know, where's this engagement
experiment we're running? And I find the
engineer he's like, oh, um I'm waiting
for um you know, trust and safety to
sign off on I'm like, what? It's like,
oh yeah. Well, I asked a so and so if we
could launch that it's ready launch
and they didn't say no, but they said
you have to go get approval from years
of security and I started realizing that
that when people would try to go do
something
they wouldn't be told no, you can't do
that.
They it was something much much worse
and slower than that.
>> You need approval from security and
trust and safety.
>> you got to go ask these four people.
Go ask these 14 people and if they all
say yes,
>> Okay, everyone's got this problem. How
do you fix it?
>> I so the what I what I did was um
it's very similar to what uh Bezos used
to do at Amazon with biased action. I
had to It was from my improv background.
I was like, we're going to have a bias
to yes. And bias to yes is only your
direct the person you report to
is allowed to tell you you're not
allowed to do that. Or or legal can tell
you, if you do that you'll be fired
because it's illegal and a violation of
the privacy policy. But no other
organization, period, is allowed to tell
you you can't do that or you need to go
ask these people for permission. Just
your direct manager. And that means if
you have an idea for an experiment and
your manager signs off on it and you
have time to do it because you're done
with whatever else you're working on,
no one can tell you you can't do that.
Or,
you know, the marketing team's not
allowed to tell you you can't use the
Mailchimp software we license cuz that's
the marketing team's, right? And so bias
to yes was
I don't want to hear about something
being stalled because organization X
said you have to go to get approval from
organization Y. And that was great.
Experiments started flying out the
flying out um
in fact, engineers started going like,
wait, I don't have to necessarily get
design to build all these wireframes for
something. I can just do it myself since
we're only launching it to 1% and see if
it works. And so that was just great. It
worked [clears throat] throughout the
organization and I would repeatedly get
on stage at all-hands meetings and like
talk about like bias to yes and what it
means and what it doesn't mean. Doesn't
mean you can go do stop doing what
you're supposed to do because it's
priority and do whatever you want to do
cuz your manager's going to go like, if
you do that, I'm going to fire you cuz,
you know, the you're being
>> Okay. No group decisions.
>> No group decisions. DRIs.
>> And bias to action. Anything else that
all these CEOs I work with are like,
we're slowing down. How do we speed up?
>> Yeah. Don't solve problems with
processes.
So, it happens all the time in
organizations. Like, some customer
problem happens, the customer churns out
or the advertiser quits and the CEO
goes, "That can never happen again." You
know, and so what happens?
Some step gets added to some process
that's like, "Before you do" I remember
Google famously the launch checklist got
to be like 17 pages long or something
and Larry was like, "This is insane."
[laughter] I was like, "Yeah, it's cuz
you know, it's like the FDA never
another thalidomide or or the TSA like
make sure there's no water bottle on the
plane." And pretty soon you're not
managing to outcomes, you're managing to
the processes and you got to go through
nine steps before you, you know,
Yeah, instead instead of just managing
to the outcome of make sure there's not
a bomb on the plane. So, the way we did
that you way you do that is you solve
problems with
DRIs, operating control, and not
processes.
You should probably only really have a
a couple organizational processes and
everything else should be span of
control and and
decision-making. When you do that, you
can't um and this was a this was
something I had to
under come to understand and and
adapt to. When you do that,
you can't punish people when things go
wrong. You you want them to take risks.
You want them to be bold. You want them
to have this bi like bias to action and
doing things and not going around and
asking for tiptoeing around and asking
for permission.
But, one of the implications is you
can't punish people for making mistakes.
And I would got to the point where I was
I would tell the team
it's not the job of leadership to
prevent mistakes from happening. It's
the job of leadership to correct
mistakes quickly when they happen. So,
if you screw something up, like by all
means tell us so we can help you fix it,
but no one should get in trouble for
screwing something up or making a
mistake. And I I didn't come to that
immediately, but I
came to realize that that was an
important artifact, if you will, of
pushing decisions down the stack and
bias to yes and we're not going to have
lots of processes.
>> Love it.
Um so many of the CEOs I work with, I
just was at a I won't say the company,
but here in New York City and spoke at
their company meeting. And here's how I
would just describe every company when
it's call it under 50 employees,
everybody knows what's going on all the
time. When it's over 150 employees,
nobody knows what's going on anytime.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you
fix How did you scale communication and
keep people on page?
Tell me a little bit about the
management by walking around.
>> Yeah, well, I did two things. Um first
of all, I taught this management class
at Twitter. It was actually based on Ben
Horowitz teaching a management class at
Loudcloud.
>> Fascinating.
>> Um
and Ben had in his outline from his
management class a statement that I like
highlighted and underlined and circled
three times. It was make sure everybody
understands what you understand.
>> Okay.
>> So, I would always tell my managers
that. Like, your job is to make sure
everybody understands what the
priorities are
and
what it means for them and their team,
how they fit into those priorities, and
and more importantly for your team, what
it means for them personally and
professionally if we achieve what we
have to achieve. Those Those kinds of
things are great. I remember somebody
telling me a story of taking a factory
tour at a Tesla shop and seeing some guy
who's like screwing a widget into the
car and asking the guy like, "What What
are you doing?" And the guy didn't just
say screwing the widget into the car. He
said, "Well, if I do this and we're able
to build these kinds of cars and these
kinds of cars can become more popular in
America." I mean, the guy understood the
story and I thought that was great.
>> It's It's like the analogy. Somebody
asks a bricklayer what he's doing and
the bricklayer says, "Well, I'm laying
bricks." And the other bricklayer says,
"I'm building a beautiful cathedral." I
love that.
>> Yeah, like you want people to under I
mean, how much more motivating is it to
work in a company where you know, if I'm
successful in my work, I understand what
the implications are for the for both me
personally and the company.
>> and context.
>> Priorities and context. Um
>> Good news travels fast, bad news travels
slow. And it's slow as the org gets
bigger, it slows down. And the And the
signal gets distorted. Yeah. How does
CEO deal with that?
>> Yeah. I said earlier,
it's not the job of leadership to
prevent mistakes from happening, it's
the job of leadership to help correct
them quickly when they happen. So, I
would always communicate, you got to
tell leadership if something screwed up.
If you're if your situation is screwed
up or your team or some decision is a
mess, you have to communicate that
constantly. Um and then secondly,
I would regularly communicate the
priorities to the team over and over and
over at all hands meetings. Here's what
the priorities are that we're working
on. This is how we're going to measure
them. This is why they're important. And
this is what they mean for us as a
company if we're successful. You always
wanted peo- I always wanted people to
understand not just what we had to do,
but why it was important to do it. And
And I think that scaling communication
architecture is like one of the most
important things in any company. And
part of it is
never saying because so-and-so said.
That's not context. That doesn't help
your team understand context for why
some decision was made or what or what
they should do or how they should go do
it. Um so, that combination of pushing
decisions down the stack, making sure
that everybody understands what you
understand, and that a lot of that is
context, and always communicating
problems or issues up the stack as a
means of helping get helping get it
resolved quickly were the ways we dealt
with that. One last thing that I picked
up from
a Steve Jobs trick.
>> Okay.
>> So,
>> Steve Jobs trick.
>> Yeah. So, when Steve was managing both
Pixar and Apple. So, at the So, he's CEO
of Pixar still, but now he's back in the
he's back in the seat at Apple. Yep. So,
now he's only at Pixar one day a week
because there's all the stuff I got to
go fix at Apple.
So, they're making like Toy Story 2. And
what Steve would do, so he's got one day
to come up to speed on what the heck's
going on at Pixar. So, he'd go go into
the office on Friday and he would say,
"All right, today I want to sit down
with like the um illustrators, you know,
without Lasseter, the director of the
movie, John. Without Lasseter in the
room. I just want to sit down me and
the, you know, illustrators." And he
would go around, there's like eight or
nine or whatever of them. He'd say, "You
know, Janet, um tell me something that's
not working well at Pixar."
>> Yep.
>> And then, you know, "Bob, do you agree
with that?" You know, taking notes like,
"Okay, Phyllis, tell me something that's
working well at Pixar. Not on the movie,
not about your job, you know."
And at the end of the meeting,
45-minute, 1-hour meeting, he'd say,
"Okay,
here's what I heard. Um you know,
people are having these kinds of issues.
This is going really well. I'm going to
go talk to John about it and he'll deal
with it on he'll deal with the rest of
this on Monday. You know, you can follow
up with him." So, he's not saying, "Oh
yeah, that sucks" or
or, you know, "No, you're wrong" or
whatever. He's taking notes,
making sure he hears everything that was
said, and then going to talk to Lasseter
about it. I started doing that with
teams. You quickly find out if that team
knows what the priorities are, is in
sync with what you're hearing from the
leadership of that team. And some of the
leaders of the company hated it. And I
was like, "Well, now I'm concerned about
why you why you hate it cuz yeah." But,
I wouldn't, you know, you're not in that
meeting doing things like throwing the
director under the bus. You're going,
"Okay, here's what I heard. I'm going to
go talk to my management team about it
on Monday and, you know, Chris or
whoever will follow up with you guys."
>> Let me switch to you on priorities. So,
all these CEOs I coach, they have their
list of priorities, it's January 1, but
holy my god, there's so much
opportunity, so much interesting stuff,
and this employee has this thing going
on.
How often did you rejigger those
priorities? Were you were you
disciplined about it over the course of
whatever that period was?
>> Yeah. You can rejigger them once in a
while.
>> What's once in a while?
>> I don't know. Like, you know, if you've
got four and huge priorities for the
first four to five months of the year,
you can't you can't get to to February
and go, "These two are stupid and we're
you know." Once or twice a year you can
go uh this one is let's let's actually
change that one to this other thing.
If you start doing it regularly, people
are like, "Well, we can get to work on
the direct messaging architecture, but
Dick's probably going to you know, 50/50
he's going to change You just can't do
stuff like that." By the way, that's
another way companies slow down is
because people are just like, "Look, I'm
not going to bust my ass on this thing
when there's a 50% chance Dick's going
to throw it out the window in in a
month."
>> Yes. Let me test something on you. A lot
of these hyper-growers
it used to be that there were a lot of
one-way doors in the software industry.
Stuff took a long freaking time to get
out the door even to test.
>> Yeah.
>> And you had to kind of do things
serially. Now you can do so much so
fast. And so they're just doing more and
it's more parallel. And a lot of those
one-way doors are two-way two-way doors.
>> Is focus overrated now?
>> No.
Focus is focus I don't think focus is
ever overrated. However,
I however, the fact that you can do more
quickly and since they're two-way doors,
you're like, "Great, no I mean this is
the old Jeff Bezos
only take a long time to make decisions
that are existential. Like, we might die
as a company if we make the wrong
decision."
>> There's fewer and fewer of those.
>> Yeah, decisions that can be like if it
doesn't if we screw it up, we can go
back and do the other one.
Do those right away. So, focus is is
still important, but it's also true that
you should feel you should feel like you
can do a lot more now with less because
you can. There was a point in 2011 when
we wanted to try to get Jeff Bezos to
join the board of the company.
Like, we have an independent seat open.
Who would be the best possible
independent director? Jeff Bezos. So,
Jack and I go meet with Jeff Bezos. I
think it was like at the Allen Company
conference or something like that. And
Jeff asked a question about strategy
and [snorts] Steve Jobs was still alive
at the time and Jack said, "Well, Steve
says the most important part about being
a CEO is focus and you should say no to
almost everything and it's in fact it's
the it's the CEO's job to be the editor
in chief and you should say no to almost
everything and do very very few things."
And Bezos looks at Jack and goes, "Oh,
yeah? Well, I like to do everything."
>> [laughter]
>> And he does the big Bezos laugh and he
goes, "My team has to talk me out of
stuff."
>> [laughter]
>> He goes, "You know, there's lots of ways
to be successful." And I remember that
like it was yesterday and he's right. Um
there's many ways to climb the mountain.
I think it's true that today he would
say, "Great, I can do even more now. We
can still we can still be focused, but I
can do even more things." I think those
I think those things can both be true.
>> Okay, just want to get back to some of
your management techniques cuz I think
they were great. This management by
walking around which is a very old
school Hewlett-Packard concept. Just
talk about it sounds like you did the
same time every week and okay. I did it
at all hours.
mostly late night. I It started because
um Bill Campbell for people who don't
know or listening to the podcast, Bill
was on the board of Apple and famously
coached Larry, Sergey, and Eric at
Google. I wrote a book about him called
Trillion Dollar Coach. He the the
Benchmark folks had also brought him
into Twitter before I got there.
Um and Bill um famously said um when I
took over as CEO, like you could um
roll a grenade into Twitter at 5:30 p.m.
and only take out the cleaning people.
>> [laughter]
>> So, and he was and he was and he was
right. So, I was like, "Okay, how do you
You can't tell people You just can't
tell people work harder." You know,
they're like, "Okay, you work harder."
You know? So, what I did was I just I
mean it's so such a stupid thing, but I
was like, all right.
>> I'll walk around at night.
>> I'm going to start
I'm going to go out get dinner. I'm
going to come back at like 9:00 p.m.
9:30 p.m. I'm going to walk around and
whoever's here, I'm going to talk about
the stuff they're doing at the next
all-hands meeting and I'm going to like
I'm going to like bump up the
prioritization of that.
>> Yeah.
>> And I remember like Marcel Molina
@noradio on Twitter. That's a That's a
little promotion for Marcel there.
Marcel is always working late on stuff
and I would like, what are you working
on? And you know, I'm going to working
on native retweet or whatever and I
would get up in front of the company and
go like, what Mar- the work Marcel is
doing. And people are like, how come how
does he always know what Marcel is
doing?
>> Okay.
>> And the other people would go like, oh,
Dick comes back after dinner at night
and walks around and people slowly
slowly slowly started [snorts] to change
the culture of, okay, the people who are
around when Dick's walking around are
getting their stuff prioritized.
>> I I did I I copied you. I walked around
Friday afternoons.
>> Yeah.
>> And I I learned a lot.
>> Yeah. And you Yeah, you So, I would just
go, you know, up to engineers and go
like, what's going on? What are you
working on? Yeah.
>> Um you have an interesting expression
that I don't understand about forest
fires in forestry management.
>> Yeah.
>> What the hell are you talking about?
>> Yeah, I I had I was trying to help um a
director in the company
be more strategic. They were super
tactical.
>> Okay.
>> And I was finally like, your like your
job as a director as you grow grow in
this company is
you can't just say like, well, I put out
this forest fire and I put like, your
job is to map the territory and start to
do forestry management. Like, what are
we going to do so that next year if
there's a fire over here, that highway
is not going to be in trouble. Like,
you can only work so many hours a day
and stamping out fires isn't going to
work as we scale. You need to push those
down the stack. Your team should be like
fighting the fire that's over there
because it might, you know,
burn the house down or something. You
need to be focused more on like thinking
about this whole pie and what what's
going to be true what has to be true 24
months from now so that this whole pie
is in this whole territory is in better
shape. And I just That was the way I
That was the metaphor I had for helping
people try to think strategically versus
like, well, I'm doing, you know, I'm
chopping down the trees. Look I'm Look
at all the trees. What That's not like
leadership and strategy. That's tactics.
>> that. Okay, now I get it. One of the
people I connect you connected to
connected with before interviewing
you said something interesting about
you.
>> Oh boy, I can hardly wait. I'm sure most
people did, but anyway.
>> And And both sides of this are
interesting. He's
>> Both Both sides.
>> "You know, Silicon Valley, San
Francisco, everyone's
passive-aggressive."
>> [snorts]
>> And
>> [laughter]
>> So, I'm curious your take on that.
Um cuz I'm I'm I I don't live in Silicon
Valley. And the second thing he said,
"Dick's not passive-aggressive. Dick's
aggressive."
>> Yeah.
>> What's Give me both sides of that.
>> Uh it's just like I'm super impa- I know
this is a personal flaw, but I'm super
impatient. Like people would come in and
go, "Here's why I'm, you know, why I
think or whatever. I'm sad." You know,
like And they would start talking to me
like, "Okay, stop. Like
It seems like you don't like working
here. You should quit."
>> Okay.
>> like, "No, I want to tell you why I'm
sad." You know, like "Okay, I don't like
I don't care.
Who cares?
I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be a jerk,
but like we have a million things to do.
I remember and then
you know, I just like
This is I'm just direct and blunt with
people. Not a jerk. You don't have to
You don't have to People think like
think a lot of times, especially maybe
engineering leaders who, you know,
I've up in the organization like coding
and programming and doing stuff on my
own and I have to manage people. They
think when you tell them you have to
like look, you have to manage
performance in your team and have to
manage poor performance out. They think
you have to be a jerk when you do that.
You don't have to be a jerk about it.
You just have to be direct about it and
forthright and not, you know,
no one's sadder than this about than me,
you know, don't say stupid stuff like
that. You know, you can be empathetic
and still be straightforward.
>> Okay, a lot of these CEOs I coach
are in their they call it in their mid
late 20s.
Um
and like in their whole life they
haven't given
they don't go to like mom, I got some
feedback on dinner or like you're
playing you're hogging the basketball.
You've just never given a homo sapien
feedback. It's unnatural.
Advice for that CEO.
>> Yeah, my advice for that CEO, Bill
Campbell actually gave me this advice
early on
is like write down what you want to say
and then say that and don't say anything
else. So the night before if you write
back down the the honest feedback that,
you know, I would give Brian especially
if have to give Brian a bad performance
review. The night before if you write it
down
I guarantee you 99 out of 100 people if
they go into the meeting the next day,
they don't say that. They're like,
listen Brian. Instead they're like, you
know, it's really hard time here for
everybody. We're all working, you know,
shut the [__] up. Like the person knows
you're about to like hit them over the
head or something. And you also don't
have to say like
Hey Brian, that's just the way it is,
you know, too bad if you don't like it.
You just just write down what you want
to say
and be forthright and honest and, you
know, you can say like I understand it's
like if you can't don't want to deal
with it anymore, I get it.
And say those things and don't add a
bunch of fluff around it. I thought that
was great feedback and I would do that.
>> Sit with the silence.
>> Yeah, sit with sit with the silence.
>> Sit with silence is hard.
>> Yeah, I so in unnatural it's unnatural.
>> The best person So I used to do a thing
in my management class where it was a
6-hour course. There was a ton of stuff
in it. But one of the things I would do,
it was about feed giving people
feedback. And like, "Okay,
like Brian, you're going to give Dick
feedback. And the feedback is you've
been working on this thing for 6 weeks
and busting your ass and you've been
here until midnight every night and we
have to cancel the project cuz it's no
longer a priority."
>> Yep.
>> For what something horrible that no one
wants to hear.
>> Yep.
>> You know, it's a made-up made-up of
course. The only person who did the
role-play that was ever good at sitting
in silence was Elad Gil, current venture
capitalist. Elad sat in the chair and
gave the person the feedback. And and I
and I say to the employee that I see
before the role-play, I kind of pull
them aside and go, "You're You're This
is [__] and you're going to tell
Dick and you don't want to hear this.
And it's it shouldn't be canceled. They
need to look at the data. Whatever."
And Elad was great at just sit
>> there. It's hard.
>> And then eventually the other person
runs out of gas and stops, you know,
talking.
>> That's the hard part.
>> great at that and the only person who
ever did it.
>> Okay.
One of the things I want to ask you
about is you had some very talented
folks, some of which you brought in,
probably others brought in like Adam
Bain and Kevin Weil, Anthony Noto, Elad.
>> Yep.
>> How did you guys recruit? What did you
look for? Are you looking for slope or
experience? Like what was your filter?
>> It's a great question. I always I
actually tried to promote with from
within as much as possible because you
want people inside the company to feel
like
we're not like going to get capped out
at which point, you know, I can only get
to this level because anything above
that Dick just goes out and finds
someone.
>> Yeah.
>> So Kevin Weil for example was promoted
from within from an IC when I got there
in 2009. Um well, there were only a few
people in the 40 people or so in the
company when I got there. Um to
eventually running all of all of product
um after running all all of the ads
product. Um, so he was promoted from
within. Noto was
I just felt like Twitter was such such a
drama. Twitter is like the drama queen
of hypergrowth companies.
>> Yes.
>> You know, it was like constantly in the
news. When I took over as CEO, that year
the Twitter bird had hanged itself and
exploded on two different magazine
covers. So I went up to our head of
communications, Gabriel Stricker, and I
was like, "Gabriel, great news. Next
year's goal, no dead birds on magazine
covers." You know, low bar.
>> Yes.
>> Uh, anyway, but it was just constant
drama and Noto was so good at Goldman
Sachs where he ran technology and media
at dealing with investors and
communicating with them, etc., that I
had been I had been trying for a while
to bring him into Twitter and I was I
was finally able to and he was, of
course, he's he's fantastic.
>> How about Adam?
>> Adam was a funny. Adam was a non, um,
what we what you call a non-consensus
hire when when I first recruited him
because, uh, um, it was while I was COO
and I went to, um, the board and Evan
said, "I got the perfect person to run
revenue at Twitter.
It's this guy, Adam Bain. He's in LA and
he works for Fox Interactive." And
everyone [laughter] was like,
"You're going to bring in someone who
works
>> selling ads.
>> So you're going to want to bring in
someone who works at Fox in LA and bring
them to San Francisco to run our, like,
you know, revenue side of the business?"
But he was the perfect person to do it.
I must have flown down there to LA
for five or six months before I I could
convince him to do it. Um, but I'd met
him while we were in the process of
selling FeedBurner and, um, his his
employer, News Corp, was one of the
interested parties before Google bought
it and I got to know him and I was just
like, "Man, this guy is like tireless."
>> Mhm.
>> And we're going to be in like a constant
dog fight and
and fighting from behind against
Facebook for social ad dollars.
And Adam was just he's just like one of
those people who's got a motor that
doesn't stop and he was the perfect
person for the role.
>> There's an old adage
uh fire fast
>> Yeah.
>> hire slow.
>> Yeah. I always said that out loud. I
didn't do that. [laughter] I didn't I
fired slow and almost every time I was
like, "Man, I should have been 6 weeks I
knew."
>> Yeah. Yeah. It was
>> about that?
>> Yeah, we I tried to hold myself
accountable to that and it's horrible.
Like there's nothing There's nothing
worse than having to do something like
that. I remember I one of my board
members, David Rosenblatt You know, I
I was
I
I was um I'm a little bit like, "Come
on." when people are like, "Oh, I like
firing people because you know, it's
it's the right thing for them." Like
that's just sounds like you're an
[__] cuz it's horrible.
>> Um but you have to do it.
>> Yeah.
>> And um I remember asked David Rosenblatt
cuz I had to terminate someone with
global operating responsibility. I was
like, "Wait a minute.
If I fire him in the morning, the people
in Japan
are going to be in bed, but if I fire
him in the afternoon, then the you know,
what whatever." And so I was like, "I
got to figure out and and I was talking
to my board about it." And David
Rosenblatt, who had been the CEO of
DoubleClick before it sold to Google,
was like, "Oh, I had to do that. I
actually saved the calendar date from
that cuz I had a whole series of
communications I had to roll out." This
is where now a couple thousand person
company, etc.
with like 30 offices around the world.
So, I get his day I get his day of
communications and the only thing I
remember from it it's a whole you know,
it's a whole layout of how to go about
it. The only thing I remember from it is
6:00 a.m. wake up in a cold sweat. You
know, it's just horrible. Uh you know,
it's not fun. You can't wait till it's
over.
>> Yeah. Um and you just have to be but you
have to do it. And most Jeff Weiner's
old analogy from he was LinkedIn CEO
when I was running Twitter. Jeff Weiner
would call it the um
for those of you who are baseball fans,
he was like, you know, sometimes you're
watching a baseball game and you see the
pitching coach or the manager walk out
to the mound and talk to the pitcher and
the pitcher's like, "No, no, no, I don't
Don't worry, coach, I still got it." And
the manager walks back to the dugout and
next guy cranks one out of the park
again. And you can see the manager
walking out like, "I knew it. I knew
it." And Jeff was like, "I never I
always tell myself, don't be the manager
having the first conversation with the
person when you know what you should be
doing is having the second conversation
with the person."
>> As a Red Sox fan, that really hits.
[laughter] Really hits home.
>> I think his example is actually Pedro
Pedro Martinez from the Red Sox, but
anyway.
>> little didn't take him out.
>> Um I work with all these hypergrowth
companies. I think you do, too. What
What are the pitfalls when you're in
hypergrowth? And what are your tips for
the CEOs listening today who are growing
incredibly fast?
>> One of the real pitfalls, especially for
these hypergrowth AI companies that are
going from, you know, a
single-digit revenue million to
>> to 100 million.
>> um is
it's very, very easy to take your eye
off the ball when you raise too much
money. And by taking your eye off the
ball, I mean we're thinking about
operating leverage and operating
efficiency. Because once you've once the
money's there, you're like, "Don't have
to worry about that. I'll go worry about
this thing over here." And next thing
you know, the you know, burn is like
We have We know We have What are you
worried about? We have
It happens all the time. And Ryan wrote
this great post saying, "Look, I thought
I was like Mr. Efficiency. We're going
to be super Not It's not going to be the
same for us. We're going to be super
capital efficient." But when you don't
have to worry about it at all,
and there are a million other things to
do, you stop worrying about it, and you
start getting Are people
>> too much money?
I think so and many many cases. I don't
know that the models are the models
probably need all the money for compute.
But But like an app company going for
$100 I think people are raising too much
money. I think a lot of companies are
raising too much money because you know,
raising a 100 million series B is the
you know, is the new you know, raising
is the new $20 million series B.
>> What else in hyper growth? Like what
breaks in hyper growth?
>> Uh hiring
hiring almost I mean my favorite thing
is you talk to you know, you talk to
like a CEO who's like I don't know,
whatever pick pick some number, you
know, first company they were lead
product manager at awesome fintech
company X and now they're CEO and
they're like we're only going to hire a
players. You know, I'm like yeah, PS
guess what?
>> Everyone says that.
>> Yeah. Yeah, come back to me when you're
when your
customer success team has to hire twice
as many people next quarter because you
just turned a bunch of customers because
no one checked in with them last quarter
because you're growing like a weed and
then tell me, you know, and you just you
just end up not doing that. And so one
of the things that you have to do
when you come to the realization that we
don't only only hire A+ players is you
have to get like religious about we have
to you have to manage out low
performers.
But as you move down the stack and
you've got inexperienced managers who
are first time managers, first time
directors, man, there's nothing that
they want to do less than let someone
go.
>> Yeah.
>> They'll do anything to not do it.
You prevent them from trans firing
people, you know, trans firing is like
Janet would be great on the ads team.
She loves ads. You need people.
>> Yes.
>> And then you're like no no no. So I had
a you know, we had we had sort of
performance reviews.
I was like, if your review is below a X
number, you can't switch teams. Yeah.
>> Like, that's a good idea.
>> No, you you know, uh whatever, let's say
it's one through four. Four is amazing,
one is you're got to go. If you're a
two, you can't move teams until you're
no longer a two. PS, if you go two to
three to two, I'm going to talk to your
manager again and go, don't let me
guess, this person could be a three
again this next term, so you don't have
to put him on a performance plan. So, we
would, after performance reviews, always
go through as a senior team, like, okay,
I can see from the way these peop- these
couple people or these eight people are
bouncing from
two to three to back to two to back to
three, like, you're just trying to not
fire people. And I can see that your
curve is inflated and blah blah blah.
So, we would just be super hardcore
about that. So, like, you can't do that,
you know?
>> Let's talk about competition for a
second. You had some
I mean, you're competing with with
Facebook.
>> Yeah, they were the juggernaut that we
just had the hardest time like
>> And like, tomorrow I'm speaking at
another company meeting. I'm not going
to say the name of the company, but
they're
they're going to be competing with Open
AI and Anthropic. Almost every boardroom
I'm in is talking about that. Everyone's
anxious about that. Their employees are
anxious about that. Advice about that.
>> First of all, you have to acknowledge
it. And then you just have to I mean,
one of the things I would always do is
like
they're like
huge and Mark is the most competitive
person on the planet. Trust me when I
tell you like
they don't like they don't say to
themselves, oh, whatever, Twitter won
that thing, that's fine. They're like,
that can never happen again. So, we have
to be like
and we're we're way smaller than them
and have far fewer resources and can,
you know, and so it's just like we just
have to be we have to we have to think
about them, we have to talk about them,
have to understand what they're doing,
and have to try to figure out how to
also out-hustle them. And Bain, Adam
Bain on the revenue the was great at
that. He would come into company
meetings at Consumer Electronics Show at
the beginning of the year and go to one
of the first big customer meetings like
let's say it's a Unilever
and he would sit down with the CMO from
Unilever before the meeting
and say, "How'd the Facebook meeting
go?" You know, "Oh, great. Blah blah."
What are they like what are they What
are they psyched about? What are they
psyched to show you this year?
You know, and then he would go into the
he would learn all that and then he
would go into the meeting with the
Unilever and say
you know, even if we had a bunch of
things to show them he'd say, "We have
some things we want to show you, but we
really want to spend the next 2 hours
today just understanding your business
and what you guys are concerned about
what your problems are." I mean, knowing
that she just told him that the Facebook
people came in and showed us this and
this and this and weren't asking those
kinds of questions. Now, Facebook wised
up to that over time, etc. But, Adam had
just come up with a great way of
thinking about how to compete with this
juggernaut. And the juggernaut's rolling
out new things every quarter. This is
really good salesmanship. He's like, "I
can't compete with their eight new
things and they're microtargeting and
blah blah blah. So, I'm going to totally
come at it from a different angle." And
he was just smart about learning how to
do that by talking to the customer
beforehand.
>> You guys picked the advertising model to
make money. As you look back at that
good call?
>> Yes. On advertising is undefeated. The
ARPU is higher.
It just is on versus subscription
revenue, etc. I think we would do the
same thing over again.
>> Any other as you look back like, "Man,
I wish I had to do over that one."
[laughter]
>> Oh, yeah. Uh we tried to buy Instagram
the month before month and a half before
Facebook bought it. And by the way, for
a much higher percentage of the company
that you know, Facebook's offer is
famously a billion dollars and I think
it was 700 of stock and 300 million of
cash. They only had eight or nine
employees at the time. Um
Mike Krieger and Kevin Systrom.
But, we knew well before that like these
guys are
Kevin is an extraordinary product
manager. Kevin and Evan Spiegel, I think
are probably two of the best product
thinkers in Silicon Valley. And so I
knew that. And well before Mark made his
offer to them, I pulled Kevin went out
to dinner with Kevin and Mike
and told them we wanted to buy the
company and would end up giving them
basically
a well over 10% of Twitter and you know,
something equivalent to 700 million in
stock. I think we were maybe valued it
uh
5 billion dollars at the time.
And you know, I would have gone and and
could I go back there and talk to Kevin?
I would say like
you can run the company when I leave.
Like congrats, you'll get to be see I
mean may still not have done it. And I
would also say also I'll go borrow 300
million dollars from JP Morgan and give
it to you.
>> I see.
>> Um and you can have it all and you know,
we'll pay them back later. Um that
because that was a game changer. Once
they had Instagram, I was like, oh man,
we're like boxed out on
that is that is the future of of rich
media social media feeds. We have Vine,
but it's much much smaller and they're
not going to come at us with
on on Instagram with video, which of
course they did. And that and that was
that was sort of checkmate.
>> Other regrets. Any regrets on man, the
content moderation stuff has been in the
news over the last 5 years. As you it
wasn't as hot while you were there. Any
as you look back at that regret?
>> was always like it was all The thing
I'll say about content moderation that
people get wrong
>> Yeah.
>> all the time is like this is real easy.
Just prevent people from doing that.
They're like, okay, well, that is a
lyric in a Kanye song. Can you not tweet
his lyrics? Or whatever. These hard and
fast rules
there has to be again, pushing, you
know,
having operating control and somebody
with an understanding of the situation
like our GC, you're going to have just
have a bunch of judgment calls and
you're going to get a bunch of them
wrong and that's life.
>> In like after your tenure,
and like I don't know what to believe,
but it looks like there was a lot of
conversation between the Biden
administration and that group, and then
a lot of accusations from Elon that that
group was just very left of center in
their orientation. Any reaction to that?
Was that the case when you were there?
>> I mean, yeah, probably it was left of
center, but I don't think that I don't
think when I was there
that
I don't think it impacted the way we
thought about abuse. I mean, it wasn't
like um you you know, we we didn't have
any like
for example, we didn't have any like,
"Oh, you're not allowed to dead name
trans people." And like that stuff was
all post me being there. At the time it
was mostly what we were dealing with was
>> kind of happened after you left.
>> Yeah, the the yeah, the stuff we were
dealing with and I what when I was there
were ridiculous amounts of Russian bots,
which at the time were not election
stuff. It was maybe they were preparing
for the preparing the groundwork for
2016, but it was mostly like
fishing attacks and just massive bot
farms that were doing fishing attacks on
on people and trying to hack into their
accounts or get credit card information,
etc.
>> Most of the CEOs who have been around a
while have got a [__] ton of bad press.
You got a metric ton of bad press.
>> Yeah.
>> It must I got a bunch of bad press. It
impacted me. I tried to show a face like
it didn't, but it it it was soul
crushing to me.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you handle it?
>> know. I like I I had been a I had had
the fortunate um opportunity to be a um
performer and do improv comedy and stuff
and audition for SNL a couple times um
before I went back into
business. And I had been like you know,
I was at I remember I was at the
Adelaide Comedy Festival with my improv
group, and we had this midnight show at
the Opera House, the Adelaide Opera
House.
And
yeah, and the crowd is hammered drunk.
Maybe a thousand people.
And it's a like an hour and 10 minute
show, completely improvised. We get on
stage and like 5 minutes in, the crowd
starts yelling like, "You suck. Get
off."
>> [laughter]
>> And like, "Man, we got 80 more minutes
or whatever." And
and uh
So, I don't know. I just became
resilient to like, "Oh well. We got to
like Did it hurt your feelings?"
I don't know. Like we got good pre- I
remember my daughter called me.
>> The good press never hit for me.
>> No, no. I'll tell you I'll tell you my
daughter um called me. This is at the
end of 2014. So, 2013, we go public, IPO
successful, everyone's super excited, go
yay us. And there's some, you know,
there were these stupid awards that come
out come out. And like CEO of the year,
Dick Costolo. Under 2014, my daughter
texts me. She's like, "I have bad news
and good news."
And I was like, "What's the bad news?"
She's like, "Yahoo Finance says you're
one of the five worst CEOs of 2014."
>> [laughter]
>> I was like, "What's the good news?" She
goes, "Nobody reads Yahoo Finance."
>> Okay, got it.
Okay.
>> I just felt like I don't know. It's like
you're like, "Okay." And I'll I'll say
one last thing on it. I have said this a
bunch, but but is I think is important.
>> [snorts]
>> Um I got invited to go to like the
Vanity Fair Oscars party one of the
years.
>> way, that must have been cool.
>> Well, I got invited to go. I didn't go.
>> Oh.
>> And [snorts] I told my dau-
>> Good question.
>> So, I told my daughter
I don't want to start going to a bunch
of stuff that I get invited to because
I'm the CEO of Twitter, because then
I'll be I'll be like, "Oh, I don't want
to not be the CEO of Twitter cuz I won't
get invited to the" So, I went to the
NBA All-Star game because I knew Adam
Silver and he invited I felt like it was
a Dick Costolo invitation. I was like I
want to I'll go to things I get invited
to cuz I'm Dick Costolo. I don't want to
go to things that the CEO of Twitter
gets invited to because that'll be like
>> Wasn't it part of your job?
>> No, I mean
I mean going to the White House sure.
Like hey the president wants to talk to
you about you know Edward Snowden and
abuse on the platform and what are we
going to do about terrorists using the
services? Yeah, you got to go to that as
part of the job. But going to the like
going to these things, you know, like
the Oscars or whatever. Like I don't
know. I don't know any of these people.
They don't care about me.
>> would have done it.
>> Yeah.
>> I [laughter] totally would have
>> Well, you would have been standing over
in the corner going like no one's talk
Tom Cruise won't talk to me. Tom Cruise
isn't talking to me.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh
it's exceptionally rare these days that
somebody a founder led company is
replaced or
>> Yeah.
>> Just that they don't hire the adult
external CEOs. Is that Should it be
happening a lot more?
>> I think it goes in waves.
>> And it's like not doesn't happen at all
these days.
>> Yeah, I know. I think it goes in waves
and I think it will continue to be there
also something will happen and people
will start going you know, we really
need for these companies that are making
you know, $4 billion in revenue after 3
years and the 26 year old founder is
they'll just something will happen and
it will there will be a wave of
you know, operating executives coming
back and then run some of the companies.
It happens a little bit like Slutman and
[__] you know, stuff like that.
>> Pretty rare.
>> Yeah, yeah, rare.
>> Even the public companies like MongoDB
but
I mean Workday recently but like maybe
one a year.
>> Yeah, if it's it's true. I do think it
goes in waves. We'll see if it we'll see
if it happens again.
>> a VP at blah blah blah company and you
want to be a Dick
Costolo.
What should you do?
You want to be that adult.
>> You you Oh, you want to be that adult.
>> to be you when I grow up. I'm a VP
>> Do Anthony Noto did, you know, when he
was CFO of Twitter, he started it like
telling making it clear to
you know, executive recruiters like I
want a CEO role. Like start, you know,
when you start seeing CEO roles out I'm
I might not get one right away, but like
I want to I want to talk to you about
CEO roles when you get them.
>> I got it.
>> Get your name out there and just I never
and Anthony would tell you this, too,
about his own career. I never took like
a risk that I didn't, you know, that I
wasn't super psyched I took. Even though
I was like trying to get on SNL and
wasn't successful, it ended up
benefiting me down the road cuz it was
like, "All right, like like live TV on
CNBC, are you okay doing that?" I'm
like,
"Look at the camera? Like I got booted
midnight in an Australia by a thousand
people. I can look in the camera and
talk about it." Should all CEOs
>> take a My co-founder took a comedy class
in business school. Yeah, it really
helped him.
>> Yeah, being on stage and, you know,
being uncomfortable being on stage make
I mean, you got to you stand up at
all-hands meeting where like, "I know
exactly what I'm going to say at the
all-hands meeting. I'm just going to
talk about the priorities."
>> Yeah.
>> That's easy after doing that.
>> Okay. Let me give you a fun one.
>> Hit me.
>> Is San Francisco passive-aggressive? Is
everyone passive-aggressive? Are CEOs
passive-aggressive?
>> I think there's a lot of
passive-aggressiveness. I think I know
who I know the person you talked to and
I think and I know the other companies
he's been at. I think he's generally
right, but there are some great
exceptions.
>> Okay.
>> I think the Collison brothers at Stripe
are
are both
the rare combination
of
really really
widely read and and and and polymaths
and understand have a broad perspective
on humanity and biology and the human
condition and it and our and our
forthright communicators
and are, you you know, neither
passive-aggressive nor hyper-aggressive.
They're just they're forthright and
straightforward and blunt and I think
those guys are great. And I and I feel
the same way about Reed Hastings, a
totally different executive at Netsky at
Netflix. Reed is always like
this is just how it is, you know, I
don't like I'm not I don't
I'm not trying to be mean about it. This
is just the way it is. And I think it I
think
>> with Reed in my head.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. I take that as a huge
compliment. I love that guy. Um I always
thought those three people, John and
Patrick at Stripe and Reed at Netflix,
are extremely self-aware. I remember I
was at a table with Reed at a dinner
once and he went around the table and
said,
"I want to hear everybody's opinion on
this. How much of your success do you
think is based on your DNA
and how much of it is based on like I
just learned how to kick ass and be
amazing?"
And I kind of I was like, I think I know
where he's going with this. And of
course, when he got around to himself,
he was like, "I think it's basically
like 80% DNA."
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> How would you answer that?
>> Yeah, I'd I think similarly. And I think
that's a I think that's a result of him
being
>> skill?
>> Yeah, I think there's certainly a bunch
of luck. But I don't think he was saying
luck versus skill. I think he was sort
of saying like, "You're not like some,
you know, exceptional person who came
out and like I'm going to fight against
the out like it's basically encoded in
you to be this way and, you know, it's
it's ended up helping you. And sure,
there's like 20% luck along the way that
put you in the position to get this role
that you might not have otherwise had.
But you were always going to do
something like this."
>> Okay, you brought up some good CEOs. The
The CEO rule book feels to me to be
changing.
Your take on how Jensen Huang runs that
with like 60 direct reports, no
one-on-ones, criticizing.
>> Yeah.
>> He's got a whole different playbook. The
thing that surprises me is I work with
all these CEOs. Nobody's copying him,
which I think is interesting. Your take
on that?
>> I go back to the Jeff Bezos
comment to Jack Dorsey. Jack, there are
lots of different ways to be successful.
I think that I think that the mistake
that CEOs make is they read the Walter
Isaacson book on Elon Musk or they read
the one on Steve Jobs and they think
this is the
>> archetype. Yep.
>> And
Walter's just left out a whole bunch of
stuff, you know? And that's not
>> have an archetype?
>> No, I didn't have an archetype.
>> was mine. He tried to copy everything he
did. I did it quite poorly.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean, it's goes again to the like,
well, Steve says you have to be an
editor and you said and you know, and
you know, and Jeff saying like, oh yeah,
well, there's lots of different ways to
do it. I think that and the reason I say
that about the books is not just because
they're more mythology than they are
what really happened. Some of it's of
course this happened, but it leaves out
a bunch of stuff.
But more importantly, you just if you
try to be someone you're not, nobody is
fooled. Like you think people are
[__] fooled? Nobody is fooled.
Everyone knows you're spinning them or
you're playing some role and you're not
yourself and nothing is more miserable
than trying to be someone you're not.
One of the things I used to I used to do
this in my management class actually,
during one of the NBA finals in back in
like the 90s, this reporter's in the
Houston Rockets locker room and it was
at a time where Charles Barkley did this
ad for Nike where Charles dunks a
basketball and looks at the camera and
goes, "I ain't no role model." Something
like that.
>> Yeah.
>> And um this reporter's in the Houston
Rockets locker room and asks Hakeem
Olajuwon
>> wrong.
>> He was he wasn't [laughter] he wasn't he
wasn't wrong. He wasn't wrong. Although
he appears to be on Ozempic or something
cuz he's got to get have his suits
retailored. Um uh this reporter's in the
Houston Rockets locker room and goes up
to Hakeem Olajuwon and says, "You know,
Charles Barkley says that kids
shouldn't, you know, idolize, look up to
NBA players as role models. What do you
think about that?"
And Hakeem Olajuwon goes, "I'm happy to
be a role model. I love being a role
model for kids." She's like, "Well,
Char- What do you And And Hakeem says,
"Well, here's the deal. Charles is a
different person in public than he is in
private. And so he's got this anxiety
and tension in his mind about whether
he's supposed to be public Charles in
this moment or private Charles in this
moment. I'm always the same person. So
if people want to look up to me as a
role model, that's fine with me. I just
think that it's nothing but misery if
you're trying to, you know, look at some
written down playbook of how Steve Jobs
did things and I got to go do that when
it's almost It was impossible for Steve
to do it almost and you're certainly not
going to be able to do it and you'll be
miserable trying.
>> Okay, last question I have is like
the Twitter board, man, there was a lot
of freaking drama there.
>> Tons.
>> So much.
>> You're building that your $100 million
company going to $400 million. You're
building a board.
Advice, like should you bring in
independents early? Should you wait?
>> I two board members that were immensely
helpful to me.
Peter Chernin who was brought in from
NewsCorp as an independent director cuz
he'd managed tens of thousands of people
and I needed someone with operating
experience, global operating experience.
Um, and Peter was great at always like
always did the sort of the Jeff Bezos
let's talk about this from the user's
perspective instead of like how are we
going to do XYZ? Like he would always
back up and say,
you know, wait. If I'm the chief if I'm
the chief user officer at this company,
you know, and I'm thinking about this
from the
And so that was immensely helpful in
lots and lots of cases. And then
secondly, Peter Fenton from Benchmark
would always help me interview
candidates and either close them or help
me with hey, how should I think about
this candidate? And that having someone
on your board who's not in the
day-to-day at the company and who can
also give the candidate a sort of a
third-party perspective on why I think
this is going to be a monster and why I
think you should do this. Um, was like
crazy helpful and helped convince
numerous execs like Adam Bain and
Anthony at the company.
>> Okay, you're at $100 million, you're
doing your series B, do you bring in an
independent or you like what happens now
is that wait right before the IPO?
>> No, yeah I think it's helpful to have
operating people with operating
expertise in there much sooner than
that.
>> Okay, and just while we're on IPO, you
took Twitter public.
What's your it's been
very hard to take companies public. It's
become very unfashionable to take
companies public. Yeah.
>> I would I would have kept it private
longer if I could go back and do
anything over again.
>> have too.
>> It's just so much easier running a
private company and not having to like
Okay, well that's going to mean we're
going to miss the revenue number by a
percent. It's the right thing to do, but
you know
the employees are going to be running
around like what's wrong when the stock
goes down 8% after hours, you know, and
as you know, you don't have a daily
ticker that the employees are freaking
out about when you're private company
and it's just a lot more you can be it's
so much easier
and stress-free to focus on the
long-term as opposed to Okay, now we
have to make a long-term versus a
short-term to have a discussion about
this because, you know, everything's
going to go sideways if we do this in Q1
instead of blah blah blah. You get it.
It was just just a lot easier to run a
private company.
>> I wanted to talk to you for a long time
because you are kind of a rare species
these days, the adult CEO brought into a
hyper-growth company
and you delivered. Thanks for coming on
the pod.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Yeah.
Okay, I thought Dick was great. It's a
master class in how do you scale and be
a terrific scale-up CEO. There's a few
things he talked about that I think are
worth reviewing, some of which I did,
some of which I wish I did when I was
CEO of HubSpot.
One thing he did that I totally did was
management by walking around. I'd wait
until like 7:00 at night and I'd walk
the halls of HubSpot through the dev
organization, support, sales, who was
around and really hear what what was
happening.
That was super useful for me. It was
great context and it was also good to
see who was burning the midnight oil.
Um, liked his feedback around giving
tough people tough feedback. I was never
very good at this.
And his advice is good. It's, you know,
the night before you're going to give
feedback for that tough person, it's not
great feedback. You got to write it down
the night before, practice it in the
mirror.
I think that's good advice. And when you
deliver it, you deliver it and you sit
in silence.
No fluff. You sit in silence.
Really hard to do, um, but I think
that's great advice. He talked about
killing committees and using DRI's. Uh,
a lot of the CEO's that I interviewed
are talking about similar things. Um,
particularly important as you've got
silos in your organization and the
important stuff cuts across boundaries
of those silos.
Uh, he gave a great quote from another
pod guest, Ben Horowitz. He said, "Make
sure everybody understands what you
understand. Not just the what, the why
and what success means for them
personally. [music]
Priorities without context are useless."
I thought that was a gem from Ben and I
[music] thought it was really cool that
he repeated it. He accuses Silicon
Valley of being passive-aggressive. He
said he's not, he's aggressive. [music]
I think that's good advice. Like a lot
of CEO's, he says you should hire fast
and fire slow. He didn't fire slow.
Almost no other CEO's don't fire slow.
Uh, I did not fire slow and so he wishes
he did that. Some gems in there. Hope
you enjoyed it and looking forward to
having you in the next pod.